Personal Finance Tracker
A robust, modular Python application designed to help users manage their daily finances, track spending habits, and ensure data safety through persistence and backups.

 Features
Data Persistence: Saves all data to expenses.json automatically.

Modular Design: Separates logic into Data Models, File Handling, and UI components.

Visual Reports: Generates text-based bar charts to visualize category spending.

Export Functionality: Export your history to CSV for use in Excel or Google Sheets.

Data Safety: Built-in backup system creates timestamped copies of your data.

Input Validation: Comprehensive handling of date formats and numerical inputs.

 Project Structure
Plaintext
finance_tracker/
│
├── main.py              # Application entry point & Menu UI
├── expenses.json        # Data storage file (Auto-generated)
├── backups/             # Directory for timestamped backups
└── reports/             # Exported CSV files
 Technical Implementation
1. The Core Engine
Expense Class: Validates data and converts objects into dictionary format for JSON serialization.

FileHandler Class: Manages the I/O operations, including error handling for missing files or corrupted JSON data.

FinanceTracker Class: Contains the "business logic"—calculating monthly totals and aggregating category data.

2. Error Handling
The application uses try-except blocks to prevent crashes during:

Invalid user input (e.g., entering text for an amount).

File permission issues.

Corrupted data files.

 How To Use
Run the App:

Bash
python main.py
Add Expense: Enter the amount, category (e.g., Food, Transport), and a brief description.

Generate Reports: Select option 4 to see a visual breakdown of where your money is going.

Backup: Run option 6 before making major changes to ensure your data is stored in the /backups folder.

 Sample Visual Report
When viewing the category breakdown, the app renders a dynamic bar chart:

Plaintext
--- Category Breakdown ---
Food       | $450.00
Rent       | $1200.00
Fun        |$100.00
 Requirements

Standard Libraries: json, csv, os, datetime, shutil, pathlib
